---
title: Plant SECRETome Project Site
sidebar: 
last_updated: Thu Jul 21 16:14:54 2016
---

## Project Objectives

The goal of this project is to provide a foundation for the identification of
components determining different secretory cell types in plants, their
biological functions and regulatory mechanisms in the context of development
and environmental. We will provide data sets, genetic material and gene editing
technologies that will advance the studies of the field. We will address a
major resource gap: the lack of secretory cell-specific promoters (e.g., to
control genes for defense against the pathogens, manage cell-specific processes
during abiotic stress, or enhance the flux of nutrients towards seeds to
improve yield). 

## Background

During the evolution of multicellular eukaryotes, cells specialized in
different tasks. In plants, some cells serve as primary producers, others fully
depend on nutrient supply (here ‘receivers’). Prominent examples for producers
are photosynthetic cells. Embryo cells exemplify receivers that depend on
external nutrient and energy supply. Certain situations are, however, more
complex. For example, roots are generally receivers, but can serve secretory
functions (e.g., epidermal cells exude chelators and sugars; vascular cells
transport essential nutrients to shoots). Transport processes bridge producer
and receiver cells. Specifically, phloem and xylem parenchyma facilitate phloem
and xylem translocation; root pericycle cells load the xylem with ions.
Secretory activities are critical for cuticle production of the leaf epidermis
as well as suberization and lignification of the root hypodermis to reduce
water loss in dry soil or oxygen loss in water-saturated soil. Pollen and
embryos depend on maternal supply with nutrients. Maturing pollen is fed and
coated by the anther tapetum; and small molecule transfer between cells is key
to embryo development and germination. Certain organs, i.e., hydathodes and
nectaries, specialize in secretory activities. Secretory activities can be
influenced by the environment, as symbionts or pathogens tap into the host’s
nutrient resources by modulating the expression profiles of host cells. Abiotic
stresses perturb the ability to produce photosynthate and limit resource
availability for growth. Under these circumstances, movement of nutrients can
be dramatically altered. Here, we define ‘secretory cells’ as those having
important functions in the secretion of solutes and macromolecules.

## Expected Deliverables

Deliverables: (1) Translatome (entirety of ribosome-associated mRNAs) of plant
secretory cells and their activities; (2) Cross- species characterization of
secretory cells through non-invasive gene profiling and physiological assays;
(3) Genetic resources for functional analyses, i.e. cell-specific promoters,
CRISPR/Cas9-aided gene knock-out and reporter gene knock-in strategies; (4)
Detailing of novel processes: pathways, circuits and functions of secretory
cells; (5) SECRETome web-based resources; and (6) Public education on genomic
editing technologies through forums and multimedia resources.

## Keywords

Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis, secretory cells, translatome, bioinformatics


<img title="cshlrnaseqlogo" src="mydoc/CSHL_RNAseq/logo_50.png"><img/>



